This page describes the client/server protocol used by the login server and L2 client.

= Intro =

The base structure for all packets is.

{{{
| 2 bytes |   up to 65533 bytes   |
-----------------------------------
| Length  |         Data          |
-----------------------------------
}}}

All integers are little endian.

Other than the first packet sent by the login server, all packets are check summed and then encrypted with blowfish using the key "_;5.]94-31==-%xT!^[$\000".

= Sending a packet =

Here is an example packet (The game guard authentication response packet).
{{{
char packet[5] = {0x0b, 0x0b, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00};
}}}

  # Add 4 bytes to the end for the checksum (bringing our packet length to 9).
  # Pad the packet with 0x00s so that the length is a multiple of 8 (we add 7 0x00s and get a packet length of 16).
    Our packet would now look like this (Already made the packet 3.2x as large! way to go L2!!!).
{{{
char packet[16] = {0x0b, 0x0b, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00};
}}}
  # Do the checksum (because apparently TCP's checksum just doesn't cut it...).
    {{{
bool checksum(char* data, int data_len)
{
	long chksum = 0;
	int count = data_len - 4;
	int i = 0;
	for (i = 0; i < count; i += 4)
	{
		long ecx = data[i] & 0xff;
		ecx |= (data[i + 1] << 8) & 0xff00;
		ecx |= (data[i + 2] << 0x10) & 0xff0000;
		ecx |= (data[i + 3] << 0x18) & 0xff000000;
		
		chksum ^= ecx;
	}

	long ecx = data[i] &0xff;
	ecx |= (data[i + 1] << 8) & 0xff00;
	ecx |= (data[i + 2] << 0x10) & 0xff0000;
	ecx |= (data[i + 3] << 0x18) & 0xff000000;

	data[i] = chksum &0xff;
	data[i + 1] = (chksum >>0x08) & 0xff;
	data[i + 2] = (chksum >>0x10) & 0xff;
	data[i + 3] = (chksum >>0x18) & 0xff;

	return ecx == chksum;	
}
}}}
  I'm to lazy to go do the checksum, so lets pretend it just came out to be 0.
  # Add 2 bytes as the length (including the 2 bytes you're adding) to the front of the packet (little endian).
    Now our packet should look like this.
{{{
char packet[18] = {0x12, 0x00, 0x0b, 0x0b, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00};
}}}
  # And your packet is ready to be sent (after getting 3.6x as large... and even better is it's not secure AT ALL...)

  # Now we encrypt the packet (NOT including the length) with blowfish using the key {{{"_;5.]94-31==-%xT!^[$\000"}}}. I'm to lazy to go encrypt it, so lets pretend it came out like so.
{{{
char packet[18] = {0x12, 0x00, 0xf5, 0x45, 0xfa, 0x4b, 0x00, 0xa9, 0x56, 0x73, 0xb7, 0xde, 0xad, 0xbe, 0xef, 0x13, 0x37, 0x00};
}}}
  It is now ready to be sent. Which brings us to the next part.

= Receiving a packet =

Let's take that packet we just sent and receive it.

  # Take the first two bytes off and use them as the length of the packet (little endian).
  # Decrypt the packet using the key {{{"_;5.]94-31==-%xT!^[$\000"}}}.
  # The first byte is the packet type, the rest of the data is packet dependent data.

= An example login process =

  # Client connects via TCP on port 2106.
  # Server sends the init packet containing the scrambled RSA public modulus.
  # (Optional) Client sends a gameguard authentication request.
  # (Optional) Server sends a gameguard authentication response.
  # Client sends encrypted username and password.
  # Server either says the login was right, or sends the proper rejection response.
  # Client requests the server list.
  # Server sends the server list.
  # Client requests to play on a game server.
  # Server asks the game server if the client can play, then tells the client what the server said.
  # Client either connects to the game server, or disconnects from the login server.
